---
layout: post
title: Data analyst
comments: false
---

**KEY SKILLS AND STRENGTHS**

- Programming languages: python, R.
- Linux system: common oeprations on Centos 6.5 such as network, security, file system and etc.
- Data: warehouse, big data pipelines and spark.
- Written and oral communication: Written communication skills developed by technical report, problem solution report and daily project process report. Oral communication developed by weekly presentation.

**EDUCATION**

Master of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Queen's University-Kingstion,Ontario                September.2018-December.2019
- Relevant courses: reinforcement learning, introduction to machine learning, werable and IOT, cyber security and bioinformatics
- Relevant projects(**ALL WRITTEN IN PYTHON**)

1.Self-driving Cab. Using Q-learning and Q-learning lambda algorithems to improve the efficency of picking up passengers in a 6*6 grids. The total time is reduced from around 1000s to 13s by learning from past experience.

2.Predict loads in hand from EMG signal. Predict patients' next move based on their EMG signal. In the machine learning part, data is splitted into **70%** training and **30%**test and got the 90% accuracy score with random forest.

3.Genetic association in children behavior base on CBCL(Children Behavior Checklist). Analyze genetic data with plink&R and found out 11 significant SNPs correlated with cognitive behaviors.

**WORK EXPERIENCE**
Network Engineer                                             April-October 2017
DT Dream -- HangZhou, Zhe Jiang
Hired as a network engineer, I was lucky to participate in projects of differen areas including deployment engineer and data analyst
**Assistant Data Analyst**
- Collaborated with senior data analyst in population data analysis using Alibaba cloud products.
- Collected population information from local government and formatted data.
- Dealt with missing and inaccurate data manually and stored them in data warehouse system. 
- Integrated personal information into a fact table based on primary id (photo id) and dug the useful information using feature extraction. 
- Made prediction based on feature extraction. For example, we trained our data to recognize the next criminal according to features.

**Network Engineer**
- Negotiated with clients about the physical address and assigned them to machine ports.
- Divided different functional areas and completed the distribution of infrastructures.
- Finished the configuration of private cloud using routing protocol and other basic operations.

**ADDITIONAL SKILL AND INTERESTS**
Cisco Certified Internetwork Expert (#50578)                                                                                                
