---
title: SQL Basics
subtitle: Sorting Query Results
layout: post
---
#Returning Query Result in a Specified Order#
Display the names, job, and salaries of employees in department 10 in order based on their salary.
~~~
select name, job, sal
from emp
where depno = 10
order by sal asc
~~~
The `order by` allows you to order the rows of your result and then in ascending order, or you can use `DESC` to sort in descending order

#Sorting by Multiple Fields#
You want to sort the rows from EMP first by DEPTNO ascending and then by salary descending.
~~~
select empno, deptno, sal, ename, job
from emp
order by deptno, sal desc
~~~

#Sorting by Substrings#
Sort by the last two characters in the job field
~~~
select ename,job
from emp
order by substr(job,length(job)-1)
~~~

#Dealing with Nulls when Sorting#
when you sort something by a column and there are nulls in there. Make sure nulls sort last.
~~~
select ename, sal, comm
from emp
order by 3
~~~

#Use extra column to do the sorting(case)#
This extra column would allow you to identify `NULL` value and sort them altogether.
~~~
select ename,sal,comm,
case when comm is null then 0 else 1 end as is_null
from emp
~~~

#Sort based on some conditional logic, if job is salesman sort on comm, otherwise, sort by sal
~~~
select ename, sal, job, comm
from emyp
order by case when job = 'SALESMAN' then comm else sal end
~~~

#Working with Multiple Tables#
Joins are the foundation of SQL. Set operations count too!!!
Use `UNION ALL` to combine rows from multiple tables. If you want to get rid of duplicates, you can just use `UNION`. But keep in mind, they must match in number and data type.

#Combine related Rows#
join two table sharing the same column
~~~
select e.name, d.loc 
from emp e, dep d
where e.depno = d.depno
and e.depno = 10
~~~

#Retriving Values from One table that does not exsit in Another#
Do you want to the specfic coloumn in table one that does not exsit in table two?
~~~
select depno
from dept
where depno not in (select depno in emp)
~~~


