---
title: Summary of My Job Hunting
layout: post
---
It is my last day of quarantine and When I looked back on my past six months. I felt tons of emotions.

I went to canada around Sep.2018 to start my master life as a computer engineer. Back then, I was just like I am not afraid of anything and I am gonna make it here. In the meantime, I was like a loose kitten? Maybe a bad metaphor. I was overwhelmed by this colourful and rich culture here in canada. I was eager to make new friends and jumped out of comfort zone. It was a reasonble choice and I regretted nothing from it. 

It is absolutely fine to make new friends, but it should not take up much of my academic time. I would pick a cultural workshop over my data communication class. I was way too immature and made some terrible choices. I was obsessed with partying and clubbing. I even used Tinder to make some so-called friends. I cut them all now.

Now, I wrote down the first semester of my master life. It was like a bad teenage movie and the main character speaks awful English.

It changed when I met Monica. She was the opposite of me. She worked hard and is super smart. I was lucky to have her in my life and taught me to work hard to get what I want. I was studying hard that winter semester. My friends were suprised about my changes. In the end, when I got two A+, they assumed I was carried by Monica. I mean, normal people would think about it too. A person who got mainly B last semester(fall term) suddenly acheive academic success. But nobody knows that I would try my best to get high marks on my every single assignment and I read tons of materials just to understand some knowledge people already now. 

I was happy that I finally catch up.

Things went south that summer. I was supposed to finish one single project and happily graduate. I was no doubt doing a project I enjoyed very much. But It was not approved by my own department. I failed to get through paper work and ended up doing a project I do not like. It is super hard if you do something you dont like. I gave up the new project and went back to china and decided to extend my study.

I worked even harder on this new fall term. If in winter term, I just encounter python and gave few tries, this semester I really wrote some class and functions. This is the time I got huge improvement of my coding skill. But since my major is not computer science, I know how to code but I dont really understand the foundations of it. In this case, data structure and algorithms. 

OKAY, I can still write a lot on my study journey. Here is the important part.

I interviewed microsoft for two teams, fortinet for two temas, bell for one team, square for one team and missed unity technology interview for one team. Some other companies I would not stress here. My takeway from all my interviews are do not give up and do not stop studying. You have to fail multiple times before making it. I am happy that I made it eventually and got accepted by a decent company. I am happy now but it is just another journey for me.
